So if you have a robot and you want to do that up with the first thing you need to do is actually to
get or to chase a laser scanner.
But there are several available devices in the market and there are a lot of characteristics that we
need to understand.
And there are a lot of features that will help us making the correct decision about which laser range
finder that is appropriate for our applications.
So for emulous or scanner these are the main characteristics that you need to figure out before selecting
or one application.
First of all a laser scanner is characterized by a minimum angle and the maximum.
And so this is how this would look like it will send a beam of laser over a certain angle.
And here we have the minimum angle and the maximum and the total between the minimum angle and the maximum
anger that represents the field of view and different places have different feet of use.
And of course this will impact their cost their performance.
And so as you can see in the picture the laser is going to send several laser beam from the minimum
angle to the maximum angle and you can see here we have separate beams and there is an angle difference
between one and another.
OK.
And the difference is it's got the angle increment and this represents the angular discussion of the
laser range finder.
OK also that is a scan that is characterized by the time increment which is the time between the measurements.
We're going to stand by measurement and then another one and that then between two measurements is called
the time increment and this time increment is different from another time that is called the scan time
which is the time between two Scots and one scan.
It means sending all the different beams.
OK so this is one scan and then after getting all the measurements we sent another Scott.
So we have the time increment and we have also the scan time that is the time between two different
scans.
And very important characteristic of the laser scanner is the range.
And for this we have the minimum wage and the maximum wage.
So the minimum range is to present the minimal observable range.
And for example some sensors are not able to see objects that have a distance lower than for example
a certain range for example some sensors cannot see objects that are in a distance lower than for example
a meter or a meter.
Now this is these are characteristics that may differ from one laser scanner to another and a more important
characteristic is the maximum range.
Some sensors are able to see for example only four meters away.
Some other sensors that they can see 10 meters away or 20 meters away or 30 meters away.
So the maximum range will depend from one laser scanner to another.
For example if you work in an indoor environment in this case maybe four meters will be sufficient.
However if you use four meters kind of an outdoor environment it will not make much sense because in
outdoor environments spaces are larger and longer.
So usually we use 20 meters or 30 meters.
And of course this will have a major impact on the cost.
The longer the range is the higher the cost will be.
And of course the laser will return as the list of ranges.
So you can see here every laser that is going to propagate in space is going to bounce back whenever
it reaches an object and then it bounces back.
The laser is able to estimate the distance to that object from this laser.
OK so here whatever every laser coming back we're going to have energy that will contain the list of
changes and then we can actually collect the list of ranges and then process them for example to be
map or to avoid after or to perform navigation.
And so.
And finally we have also the list of intensities coming back from the laser scanner.
So this is an interesting example for example of a laser scanner that will hit obstacles and then we
will see that every laser beam is going to represent one ridge.
So rest later on you will see that we can have an array of ranges and every race for example this is
the minimum angle we one point two and then the angle just after that returned 1.3 and then 2.0 and
so on depending on the value that bounces back from the laser scanner after it hits an obstacle.
OK so the distribution of ranges may look something like this.
We can collect it using cross using software.
And then we can process this information in order for example to avoid obstacles or build them up.
So something very important to notice is that the front direction is the angle zero.
And then you can go the right side you have the minimum angle to the left side.
You will have the maximum for example here you have a field of view of 90 degrees between zero and minus
45 and zero plus 45.
You can actually do.
I'm going to present the most popular and common laser range finder available.
Mike.